CS 535/CS435
Spring 2025
Assignment 2
Assigned on 26 March 2025
CS 535/CS435
Spring 2025
Assignment 2
Assigned on 26 March 2025
Due on 23 April 2025

Total Points: 100


 
This project is about studying data classification and clustering. It follows the previous project and we use the same four datasets with missing values cleaned up in that project. Answer the following questions. When you are asked for implementation, you need to turn in the source code. You are free to use any programming language you are comfortable with for the implementations. You are also free to use any libraries except for the functions you are asked to implement. When you submit your work, you may either submit a text file (in ASCII, text, Word, of pdf) answering all the questions in addition to the files of source code, or write your answers in text as comments to the files of source code and make sure to label the answers to the corresponding question numbers.


1.	Implement a general K-class classification method. Please provide the source code (10 pts.).

2.	For each of the wine quality datasets, generate a training set by randomly picking up X percentage of the whole dataset and use the remaining as the testing set where X takes the 
    value of 20, 60, and 90, respectively. Train the classification method you have implemented for each of the scenarios for each of the datasets and then apply the trained classifier to the 
    corresponding testing set to obtain an accuracy value using the corresponding, given ground truth in the dataset. The accuracy is defined as the percentage of the total number of correctly 
    classified data samples in the test set out of the total number of the whole test set samples (20 pts.).

3.	Observe the relationship between the red wine and white wine scenarios for the three cases and the relationship among the three cases for both red and wine scenarios. 
    Comment on the relationships (10 pts.)

4.	Implement the modified K-means method and apply this method to each of the wine quality datasets with the number of classes varying from 5 to 15 and report the final number 

    of classes returned by your implemented method and the normalized mutual information value with the given groundtruth for each of the two datasets (20 pts.).
5.	Are the clustering accuracy values between the two datasets in Q4 consistent? Why? (10 pts.)

6.	Apply your implemented classification method to adult dataset using the given training set for training the model and evaluate the method using the given test set. 
    Report the accuracy (10 pts.).

7.	Compare your accuracy with those documented accuracy values from different methods in the adult.names file and explain why your implemented method positions this way in 
    comparison with the other methods (10 pts.).

8.	What would happen for classification and clustering, respectively, if we have extremely imbalanced classes (10 pts.)?



Total Points: 100

